>[!SUMMARY] Table of Contents

>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Module Introduction|Module Introduction]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Starting Project & Our Goal |Starting Project & Our Goal ]]
>        - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Our Demo App|Our Demo App]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Creating a First Deployment|Creating a First Deployment]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Another Look at Services|Another Look at Services]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Multiple Containers in One Pod|Multiple Containers in One Pod]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Pod-Internal Communication|Pod-Internal Communication]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Creating Multiple Deployments|Creating Multiple Deployments]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Using DNS for Pod-to-Pod Communication|Using DNS for Pod-to-Pod Communication]]
>        - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Core DNS service |Core DNS service ]]
>        - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Namespaces|Namespaces]]
>    - [[14. Managing Data and Volumes with Kubernetes#Connecting Pods|Connecting Pods]]
## Module Introduction
- Connecting Pods, Containers & The World
- Another Look at Services 
- Pod-Internal Communication
- Pot-to-Pod Communication

## Starting Project & Our Goal 
### Our Demo App
- 3 APIs in a cluster:
- 1.) **Auth API** + 2.) **Users API** in the same Pod in the beginning of the lab 
	- w/ Pod-internal communication
	- Auth API not reachable from outside the cluster
- 3.) **Tasks API** in a separate Pod
**Both of these Pods reachable from outside world.**

## Creating a First Deployment

```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: users-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: users
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: users
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: users
          image: ilouckov/kub-demo-users
```

`docker build -t ilouckov/kub-demo-users .

`docker push ilouckov/kub-demo-users

`kubectl apply -f=../kubernetes/users-deployment.yaml
 
 `kubectl get pods`
 
## Another Look at Services
- services provide:
	- a stable IP address which does not change all the time
	- outside world access

## Multiple Containers in One Pod
## Pod-Internal Communication
## Creating Multiple Deployments
## Using DNS for Pod-to-Pod Communication
### Core DNS service 
- automatically creates Domain names which are available & known inside of the cluster for all services
-> in `deployment.yaml` => env/value: `service-name.default` (use domain name instead of IP address)
### Namespaces
- logical grouping of resources
kubectl get namespaces

## Connecting Pods
- services are needed for access
1. look up IP address manually + define via env 
2. automatically generated env variables 
3. automatically generated domain names

